---
title: Infinite Jest
author: David Foster Wallace
readingDate: 2015-08-15
layout: book
---
So this took me about 3 months. It’s not particularly a difficult read really, on a sentence by sentence level, but it does require some sustained attention – I’ve been cycling into work 90% of the time so my hour of commuter time reading hasn’t been there plus child care etc. A committed reader could do it in a month or two I expect. 

Short version: It’s worth your time, use two bookmarks.

Long version: As usual, this is as much about me getting my thoughts together as anything else and in this case I have a lot of thoughts. So with that caveat …

First off, the basic atoms, words and sentences; colloquial Bostonian and esoteric academic and technical terms crowd together (often deliberately solecistically), pretty much everything is 3rd person but the perspective hews closely to individual characters both in terms of information available to the reader and idiom – Wallace occasionally highlights terms that characters wouldn’t or would themselves have used “she doesn’t actually use the terms _thereon_, _most assuredly_, or _operant limbic_ system though she really had before said _chordate phylum_” this all serves to muddy up the waters with regard to authority within the text (kind of like an unreliable narrator but actually an unreliable author, or rather narrator and author are kind of conflated or rather that conflation is made explicit) and gives the whole novel quite a unique (in my experience) texture. Also _Glad Flaccid Receptacle Corporation_ always made me smirk.

Anyway, these words and sentences are put together into a bunch of anecdotes and urban legend style mini stories (often nested within each other) orbiting around a tennis academy and neighbouring half way house for recovering addicts. Some of these stories I swear I’ve heard before; either Wallace plucked them from urban lore and fitted them to characters or he created that mix of credibly & incredibly horrific/ funny that marks a successful [modern myth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urban_legend) and they escaped from the book – probably both, either way, this blurred provenance and the half remembered vibe that these episodes engender reinforces the whole unreliable author thing mentioned above, the book’s always bleeding out round the edges. Similarly the book includes plenty of corny aphorisms of the sort DFW pedalled in his famous ‘This is Water’ commencement address but I think his relationship to this kind of material is more ambivalent and complex than he’s given credit for and esp. in the context of this book (I may make another post about this but I don’t want to go on about it here as it’s a potentially massive derailment and involves comparisons to other dead writers reputations and stuff that I want to try to keep out of these supposedly short notes on books I’ve read)

Mild spoilers…

So these stories are about a sizeable group of characters who orbit with varying proximity the tennis academy ( Enfield Tennis Accademy, E.T.A.) and the halfway house ( Ennett House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House (sic) ) Primarily tennis prodigy and precious dictionary memoriser Hal Incandenza and prescription downer addict, professional criminal and He-Man lookalike* Don Gately. These sections run nearly parallel intersecting only in the most fleeting ways during the course of the book but different sections tend to borrow phrases, settings, images from each other setting up a kind of dialogue between the locations which DFW uses to explore thematic connections like the idea present in both high pressure learning institutions and AA type 12 step programs of breaking down and rebuilding a person, the costs and benefits of this, drugs and sport (playing and watching) and tv as equivalent entertainments, obsession and single minded devotion to a thing __“American experience seems to suggest that people are virtually unlimited in their need to give themselves away, on various levels.”__ (bolded cos this seemed to me to be the core of the book thematically)

For the first half of the book there’s also a third strand sitting between these two; a conversation between Marathe a Quebecois terrorist from an organisation of wheelchair bound assassins (double/triple/quadruple agent?) and Steeply a federal agent. These guys are having a conversation about a film Infinite Jest (aka the entertainment aka the samizdat) made by Hal’s film maker father ( James Orin Incandenza; 2nd generation alcoholic, former tennis prodigy, former groundbreaking optics engineer, subsequent suicide by head in microwave ( the mechanics of which are worked through re. door safety mechanism) ), this film the viewing of which is so pleasurable an experience that those who do are rendered hopelessly addicted and will gladly starve to death just watching the thing over and over again. The discussion between Marathe (whose organisation intend to weaponise the tape) and Steeply (whose organisation wishes to prevent that) do most of the plot moving for the first half of the book as well as furnishing us with details of the world in which the book takes place and allowing for some explicit discussion of themes raised by the ETA & Ennett House sections (albeit often in a kind of naff attempt at a French speakers attempt at speaking English – and lets draw a discrete veil over the [AAV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African-American_Vernacular_English) sections). 

So all this over some 1000 odd pages (including like 200 or so of end notes) puts together a series of interconnected mysteries which are so purposefully and consciously constructed and so tantalisingly unresolved that it’s basically begging for all sorts of theories about what really happened and why and what it all means. (More severe spoilers + wild speculation…) The ending in particular just leaves you hanging, or rather sends you right back to the start of the book. You see the first section of the book is last within the books chronology. The book’s conclusion, the point at which it’s almost parallel lines cross is within the lacuna between the end and the start – The wheelchair assassins mount an assault on ETA, Hal and Gately meet and try to dig up the master copy of the entertainment from his (Hal’s) fathers grave ( not the only reference to Hamlet, like Hals father’s is dead (and a ghost), his uncle’s in charge of the family tennis academy though I’m not sure to what end these parallels), all this happens, hazily, outside the scope of the book. The effect of which is to kind of remove the books frame (supporting the kind of bleeding oa the edges mentioned above) to kind of prevent it from being complete, or maybe to broaden its scope. One of the other main themes of the book is the insufficiency of language for representing reality and lived experience and this broadening seems kind of the ultimate expression of that, like by leaving the denouement implied it makes it more real than if it were shackled to printed words maybe? For that reason I’m kind of wary of [‘solutions’](http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/ijend) to Infinite Jest in that they seem to lessen the book (though I do find that kind of speculation enjoyable and will indulge in it myself obv ).

And finally, as [Abbie](https://twitter.com/abbiefs) pointed out in an email “the whole insane structure [ is a ] peg for a conventionally realist, deeply empathic and memorably wrought novel about drug recovery and tennis”.

*seriously, I’m sure that Wallace based Gately’s appearance on a He-Man toy: huge squarish head, blonde Prince Valiant haircut, biceps bigger than his head etc.