---
layout: post
title: Blogs, jargon, Robocop, Hearthstone, winter, dog vomit.
---

### Traditional opening

The traditional opening for starting /reviving a weblog in 2018: I quit Twitter a while back having been ramping usage down for several months/years. The final straw was just more of the same bullshit stuff where they don't feel like they have do anything about racism or harassment or death threats unless the victims of those abuses complains individually about each and every instance. But it would be wrang to claim it was a moral choice really, it just takes up too much attention and is a bad place for sharing and reading thoughts and ideas.

So anyway I've downloaded an RSS reader and I'm going to pretend it's 2002.

### Jargon

Recently I've been watching/ listening to a bunch of poker videos and Hearthstone videos in the background while working or cooking or drawing or whatever so I've had the chance to learn a whole bunch of jargon (and caused YouTube to recommend Jordan Peterson videos to me :puke emoji:) and to think about the uses and abuses of domain specific language i.e.

__Jargon as compression__ To expedite communication between experts.

__Jargon as shiboleth__ exclude outsiders, admit insiders.

__Jargon as map__ The lexicon of a discipline highlights important domains of knowledge and concepts within that discipline. (e.g. certain poker table positions have specific evocative names -- _hijack_! _cutoff_! _under the gun_! others are just 'middle positions')

__Jargon as metaphor__ Because jargon can compress complex ideas and map systems it's a powerful tool for constructing metaphor. Within my own area of software engineering this causes all sorts of problems with metaphors and heuristics being exported to situations where they don't fit with socially damaging results c.f. _engineers disease_ 

### Hearthstone opinions

... speaking of jargon... 

I think the metagame is in quite good shape at the moment insofar as there are several viable deck archetypes across a few classes. That said there's a definite rock, paper, scissors feel to it where certain match-ups heavily favour a particular deck type. This is a problem that I don't think you can get around without homogenizing the classes and making the game more bland. After a certain point in _ranked_ mode the fact that people can easily share successful decks on the internet combined with the use of deck trackers and the sheer number of players means that you have to approach optimal play to make any progress -- most months I end up around the 19/18 mark where this effect seems to begin to bite. 

I guess I'm in an awkward spot wrt the game at the moment. I'm not bad at deck building (and I refuse to use online deck lists, where's the fun in that?) and I'm good enough to find _casual_ mode a bit easy most of the time when I'm using a competitive deck but I don't have the time or inclination to spend money to seriously contend in _ranked_, and besides, some decks are just more fun to play with than they are competitive (I've got a good Shaman + elementals control deck which is super fun but too variable to climb the ranking ladder). Think I'm going to play more _arena_ (the game's deck draughting mode). 

Still, the game is pretty great, you can put a lot of thought into play, there's a nice random component to it and I'm into the cartoonish high fantasy aesthetic of the whole thing that manages to encompass everything from [straight up heavy metal album cover](https://d1u5p3l4wpay3k.cloudfront.net/hearthstone_gamepedia/1/17/Lord_Jaraxxus%28482%29.png?version=d3e5eddc4c6116141e93b9115be19647) stuff to [weaponised piñatas](https://media-hearth.cursecdn.com/avatars/376/471/636688327667340402.gif).

Fascinating stuff I know!

### What's your name son? (including mild spoilers for a 30 year old film)

I watched the original RoboCop for the first time in ages over the weekend. The last 30 seconds of that film are my favorite bit. I love the way Verhoeven undercuts the 'feelgood' action movie ending; like the whole film is RoboCop's journey to recover his humanity crowned by the OCP boss asking his name at the end an him being able to reply "it's Murphy" only for the director to immediately cut to a black screen with __ROBOCOP__ written bright white block caps -- I mean Verhoeven knows that RoboCop has fixed precisely zero of the problems in Detroit but because at the end he's notionally a human corporate tool rather than a _literal_ machine the logic of action films tells us this is a happy ending. LOL? I really did! 

Of course Verhoeven only got better at using the form of violent action films to critique the form of violent action films (aka having your cake and eating it) in Starship Troopers which I'm thinking I might watch tonight. 

Further listening: [Jessa Crispin's podcast has a clutch of good episodes trawling through Verhoeven's back catalogue](http://foreverdogproductions.com/fdpn/podcasts/public-intellectual/).

### Winter

Winter is very much coming, the fox shit on our front path is hidden under leaves. Last winter was pretty bad -- largely for job related reasons (never make career decisions on advice gleaned from a Gilmore Girls episode) which the darkness compounded. This year work is _much_ better and my new office has fantastic skylight so I'm cautiously optimistic.

### Closing quotation

I'd like get into the habit of posting here on a regular basis after all, as [Samuel Becket wrote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proust_%28Beckett_essay%29):  "Habit is the ballast that chains the dog to his vomit" :smiley face emoji:
