---
layout: post
title: Time sculptures
---

In _The Iron Council_ China Miéville posits a kind of reverse Fallen Monument park on the outskirts of his fantastic city New Crobuzon. The statues start life as huge blocks of marble or whatever, apparently scattered at random, and the sculptor applies chemicals and small nicks and positions the rock just-so so that the natural processes of rain and wind and time will hundreds/thousands(?) of years hence produce the desired work of art -- this I'm recalling over the distance of 13/14 years or so without checking back, the idea is important not the detail.

Related: I was listening to a podcast with Robin Ince interviewing Jeremy 'League of Gentlemen' Dyson, talking about creativity, memory and horror fiction. Ince mentioned the phenomenon by which the influence of events in your past (in his case a car crash when he was in as a child) begin to take on a more defined meaning as time moves you further from the event -- I guess there's a kind of memory survivorship bias going on but beyond that it suggested an interesting way to think about memories of memory to me. Like, we start of with an undifferentiated block of space-time -- the equivalent of the Bas Lag sculptors marble block -- all the events and implications of that 4d chunk are of equal weight and possibility and then the weather of our subsequent experiences erodes that block into a crisply delineated and meaningful story. The implication being that contained within that moment are multiple meanings and stories that are only allowed to emerge under particular weather conditions. That's why we don't always agree on the specifics of an even let alone it's meaning the compression our brains employ to fit it all in throw away stuff that seems trivial to us but is central to others (Rashomon!).

I suppose this is in someways an obvious way to think about the role of memory in story-telling esp. life-story-telling, but it's sometimes nice to find a new way to think about obvious things. As a bonus the conceit enriches Miévilles novel for -- I'm sure that's deliberate but I missed it at the time; a strong argument for the importance fantasy/sci-fi puts on the spectacular/wierd image as a way to lodge something in your brain until you're experience allows you to digest it.

[Post title is quite _Dr Who_ isn't it?]