---
layout: post
title: Old music, old books
---

I've been listening to  old albums that I've never heard before. Inspired by the release of the 33 1/3 book I listend to _Flood_ by _They Might Be Giants_. Aside from _Birdhouse in your soul_ which is a pop gem I found it pretty  poor. I mean it has a similar tweeness to Jonathan Richman who I think is great but his lyrics are just a whole world better resting less on tricksy surrealism and his laid back 'n' loose style is much more up my street than the fussily precise arrangements on _Flood_.

<s>Nearly finished</s> Finished Barbara Kingsolver's _The Poisonwood Bible_ this week. I picked it up from Emma's read pile -- I wanted to read _Flight Behaviour_ but figured I should start with the one we had in the house. I'm not a huge one for the family-saga kind of novel but boy is this one good. The way Kingsolver draws parallels between the abusive religious paternalism of the missionary Nathan Price with the horrors of colonialism and later the post-colonial settlement of Mobutu's regime in Zaire is super effective. Occasionally the authorial voice is a little too present in the point of view chapters especially those of Rachel, the oldest daughter, who's solecisms can be just a little too perfectly ironic -- there's pleasure in that too, but of a different kind than the rest of the book.

I feel like the thing I really miss about twitter is the ability to publicly complain about people being rude on public transport, so really no loss at all for anyone.