---
layout: post
title: GoT-s08e01
---
Last night we ate at Laksamania just north of Oxford Street, it has the feeling that it might be one of those London chains that starts off as great food and good value, expands rapidly and then quality falters under the need to repay investors. Right now though it's about as good a laksa as I've had in London.

We hurried home past the Extinction Rebellion protest at Oxford Circus -- I whole-heartedly support it obviously -- in order to get home with enough time to catch up on the first episode of the final series of Game of Thrones. 

Tbh it wasn't great C+/B-?, though it hit all the points it needed to and fitted plenty into it's alloted time without feeling rushed -- minimal viable GoT. The most obvious problems are carried over from the last season: dumb dialogue that thinks it's smart and a need to streamline the plot overriding almost everything else plus there just aren't that many interesting characters left over -- I don't really buy Sansa as a court intrigue mastermind (though she's one of my faves now if only for her unerring pragmatism (see also Davos)) and Tyrion has probably suffered most from not having GRRM write his lines (at least at one remove). Circe is still great obviously but she's out of the action with only shitty 3rd rate villain Euron to play against.

Finally, as a nerd for this kind of thing, the world building has gone to hell. Both in terms of specific things like: you can't forge obsidian, it doesn't work like that, and just everything about the way the show treats ships. But also in terms of how empty and textureless the world feels now. We never see market places we never see refugees or if we do we see them only from afar. The machinations of the powerful happen in a vacuum and I find it just fundamentally unsatisfying compared to the earthier milieu of army camps, taverns and occasional farms in the earlier seasons.

So my problems with the show are to do with material science, naval logistics and world building, the nerdiest of all fantasy fan complaints. But I mean it's still good fun it's just not actually _good_ in the way the earlier series were.

Things I am looking forward to.

 * Euron dying -- I don't care if this happens immediately, off screen at the start of the very next episode, just ditch him! We don't have much time left and his whole thing is just a drag. A dull character who's at the center of the shows most nonsensical and directionless plot lines.
 * Arya killing people
 * A big episode long battle (stretch goal, two)
 * The Hound vs The Mountain
 * Briene of Tarth
 * Gilly getting some credit
 * Scenes where people equip themselves with cool weapons and armor
 * Less aggressive colour correction
 * Stretch goal: A folk uprising overthrowing the monarchy and forming a dictatorship of the proletariat. I nominate Gilly to lead though Sam will get the credit obvs.
