I resolved that I'd try to avoid politics here but sometimes I need to vent and this may save an evening in the pub from degenerating into bitter and desolate ranting...

It's taken a while but I think Brexit has finally broken my spirit. I just want it to be over now and I kind of don't care about eating only [turnips](http://blackadderquotes.com/blackadder-baldrick-turnip-quotes) for the rest of my life (or whatever the eventual outcome might be), the final straw came last night when I read that [Plummeting insect numbers 'threaten the collapse of nature'](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/feb/10/plummeting-insect-numbers-threaten-collapse-of-nature). Which put things in perspective. As a society I really feel we should just get over this (terrible, ruinous) distraction and concentrate on the stuff that's of vital importance to our continued survival over the next 100 years i.e. climate change and catastrophic ecosystem collapse. I suspect any problem we face as a society over the next howevermany years is probably going to be just a symptom of this underlying existential threat. The particularly depressing thing here is that post-brexit we will in all probability be in a weaker position to act collectively to mitigate the problem, and under tightened economic constraints locally preventing us from  behaving in the sensible and far-sighted ways required. I mean it's absolutely true that in global/historic terms now is probably not a bad time to be born what with medicine and hygiene and education and so on but we are cursed in so far as we have a pretty good understanding of the impact of our collective presence on the planet is having and what that's likely to mean for our descendants, my feeling being that things are going to go rapidly downhill. Best of times worst of times etc.

---

The 'slow-apocalypse or breakdown' novel  [Clade](https://cityoftongues.com/2015/12/30/the-end-of-nature-and-post-naturalism-fiction-and-the-anthropocene/) deals with our next 50 years particularly effectively I think. Whilst i didn't particularly like the book at the time it has lived in my imagination and coloured my thinking about climate change since I read it a year or two ago.

---

I got my first class to level 60 in Hearthstone over the weekend (Shaman fwiw).