---
layout: post
title: Into the Breach
---
It's a turn based strategy game on the Nintendo Switch so that's obviously up my street, but there are a bunch of other things going on that I've not seen -- or not seen done so well -- that I want to note because I think they're interesting.
 * The maps are very short and have a puzzle like feeling, like a chess puzzle or like the kernel of an _Advance Wars_ level but without the city capturing and with a tighter set of units. Each one takes only 6 turns but every decision you make is highly consequential. Aside: Much has been made of ITB being 'perfect information' but really, that's not any more true than it is for many other turn based strategy games (ie. not really) what ITB does well is make the information very _legible_ and also the decision space is constrained enough that you can fairly easily integrate that information in your play lending a real sense of mastery when you play well.
 * The variety. Whilst the games pieces seem initially pretty limited (esp in comparison to something like _Disgaea_) each group of three player controlled mechs has a very distinct set of actions available to them and these mechanics play really nicely with the themeing of the mechs. My current faves, _The Rusting Hulks_, are giant archaic machines that belch smoke and generally creak around the battlefield bashing giant insects and feeling constantly on the brink of breaking down. OK, once you've chosen your robots you can also choose a <a href="https://intothebreach.gamepedia.com/Pilots">lead mech pilot</a> who will bring with them a way to break the rules, I like Camila "The Soldier" Vera who can act from within a cloud of smoke (synergy with _...Hulks_) and can't be ensnared by enemy webbing. Further, as each campaign progresses your pilots level up and you can kit out your mechs with cool new weapons allowing you to cusomise your tactics. So really there's a nice amount of variety but worn lightly.
 * Teamwork! This is the bit that I think is most distinctive about ITB the way your mechs work together as a gestalt; if you lose one mech you don't just lose a third of your effect, at higher levels it's basically fatal and yet time and time again you will have to prioritise saving civilians to protecting your mechs -- so good! 
 * AND! BUT! That's not even the best of it, what's really cool is how the dialogue between your pilots makes you feel like they are actually a team of highly skilled experts and the stakes are high. You know in _XCom_ when you loose a squad member who you've had for ages? They don't even need to be that important gameplay-wise but that small customisation + familiarity is enough to make you care deeply "NOOOOOOoooo! Not Jaques!". ITB does that but more so. The writing is some of the best I've come across in a video game for a long time.

 So that's my favourite video game of the year. 

<a href="https://subsetgames.com/itb.html"> There is a link to the developers website for the game.</a>