Just finished _Murmur_ by Will Eaves -- The opening section of which [was shortlisted fro the BBC's short story award back in 2017](https://www.londonreviewbookshop.co.uk/blog/2017/9/bbc-national-short-story-award-2017-murmur-by-will-eaves). It's a fictionalised account of Alan Turing's experience of 'chemical castration' with the emphasis heavily on the first person experience -- hallucinatory dreams etc.  a fascinating experiment which Eaves very nearly pulls off. For me though the poetry of the language and the insights that are thrown up wrt conciousness, selfhood and memory aren't equaled by control of the novel as a form. The opening section is the strongest whilst I felt that a fairly aggressive cutting in the mid-section might have helped everything to cohere. TBH reading it in the wake of the _Milkman_, another novel which hews tightly to a first person experiential perspective, probably didn't do it many favours. _Milkman_ is staggeringly good, _Murmur_ is fascinating but flawed by comparison.

---

In other news: Brexit continues endue (imbue?) London with a headachy level of ambient anxiety. 

--- 

There's a new Hearthstone expansion coming out and I'm toying with pre-ordering 50 card packs.

--- 

I've been helping J & K to understand Redstone in Minecraft. Redstone is a set of Minecraft blocks which pass signals along 'wires' and from which you can construct simple circuits like clocks and logic gates which then can be combined to produce combination locks etc. The challenge is that these constructions tend to be pretty bulky so require some considerable planning to integrate them into your existing buildings and building them within those structures tends to make debugging hard (debugging is my job obvs). All in all though it's good, it feels like pretty much the best way I can imagine to teach low level logic circuit design to 7 year-olds.

---

I've backed a [board game](https://bloodontheclocktower.com/buy) on Kickstarter. Last time I did this was with Catacombs which we still play quite a bit but the process ran for a lot longer than expected and I found it pretty stressful. I'm more financially stable these days and psychologically prepared so hopefully I won't get so stressed out about it this time.

K's getting good at baking, easily as good as her mother and me at this point -- though I still have to do some of the more energetic stirring. That's my role as a parent, stirring and debugging, I'm more than happy with it.
