It's 2019 and I can confirm that I don't like Steampunk. I've skipped the genre for while because I _assumed_ I wouldn't like it but then I saw that Kelly Link had edited an anthology called _Steampunk!_ which offers a broad take on the genre and was part of the same series as her _Monstrous Affections_ YA anthology which I really liked. So I read it -- or most of it. None of it was bad it was just rigorously and conclusively not what I look for in genre fiction. 

The good though: The stories often focus on using the kind of neo-colonial setting to critique colonialism, though this tends to be rather on the nose. Though I guess it could be that _Link's_ selection focuses on the YA end of things so lack nuanced (not a necessary feature of books for young adults to be sure but not an unusual one either).

I suppose I struggle to get what 'steampunk' brings to the table other than a particular aesthetic. Even by that standards of modern publishing it feels more like a marketing category rather than a set of story telling affordances (how I'm mainly thinking of genre, in its positive connotations).

Anyway, in the wake of that, a broad dissatisfaction with modern books and a pub conversation with Kate B I picked up Mary Barton to read on the plane to New York and was instantly sucked in. I think Elizabeth Gaskell is pretty underrated esp. compared to her near contemporaries the Bronte's. I mean she doesn't have the gothic grandeur of Charlotte or Emily but her characters are richer and her stories resonate more strongly with me. Maybe more on this when I finish the book.
