Sally Rooney's _Normal People_ was good, and I guess I'd recommend it if you think at all it's the kind of thing you might like; character portraits, coming of age, overcoming (or failing to overcome) trauma etc. etc. but I can't help feeling I'm a bit out of touch with the prevailing critical consensus that it's a "must read". I get it but I don't _get_ it.

Similarly I saw _Midsommar_ last night and it left me rather cold in spite of how well it's been reviewed __SPOILERS FOLLOW__: I mean, people have pointed out that it's not a horror film and I'd agree with that -- but I feel like it has all the trappings of that genre including a problematic [tendency to teratophobia](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/jul/10/midsommars-ableism-resurrects-the-dark-history-of-eugenics-inspired-horror-ari-aster) and so at some level has to be judged on how effectively it deploys those tropes. So yeah, I didn't find it scary. The idea of the relationship between the two central characters playing out in the society of the commune was interesting and well handled and the boyfriend character _was_ a proper dick. I was pleased when he was paralysed and then sewn into a bears carcass to be burnt. Also I was pleased to see Dani, the girlfriend, smile in the final scene. It felt a bit like the ending of _The VVitch_ where embracing the dark (or in this case light) pagan forest was a valid and perhaps necessary choice in order to escape the clutches of a) the patriarchy/ b) shitty boyfriends. But on the whole, as I say, it left me cold.

There were a bunch of loose threads that felt promising but never really came to much. Mainly Chidi out of _The Good Place_ as an anthropologist intent on studying the commune in a kind of neat reversal of the white colonial-explorer/ anthropologist but for me that just kind of fizzled out without saying much. 
