April/ May reading. I haven't been keeping up to date with book notes so here is a bit of a brain dump. 

First: Ur detective fiction _The Moonstone_ had it's moments but none of those moments were in the first 150 pages or so which for me made the whole thing feel like a bit of a slog. Also, in the end the solution felt like a cheat. Interesting but I didn't find it that entertaining. I won't rush to read another Wilkie Collins but I wouldn't totally rule it out.

After which I read _Disobedience_ by Naomi Alderman, felt like a first novel (which it is!) in both negative and positive ways -- mainly positive. A lot of my enjoyment came from it's mix familiar NW London geographical setting and unfamiliar Jewish orthodox cultural setting. 

Then I finished B Catlings _Vorh_ trilogy, the final volume being _The Cloven_ which felt rushed and unresolved. The invention and the ingenious grotesqueries of the first novel have at this point become less interesting and the whole didn't end up feeling coherent. There's a lot of stuff to be dug into here regarding the use of an African setting and the trilogy's take on colonialism which I don't really feel qualified for, suffice it to say that I think there are some problems. Perhaps the series might have worked better as a series of loosely connected short stories/ novelas? Or maybe I'm just saying that so I can segue seamlessly to...

David Bunch's _MODERAN_ a series of loosely connected short stories set in a future where men have replaced all their soft parts with metal (read also as emotional openness/vulnerability) and are prone to excessive bouts of SHOUTING IN ALL CAPS and psychological breakdowns brought on by the aformentioned suppression of emotional reality. The NYRB collection I read was apparently the complete set of stories, perhaps a little too complete. The early stories are utterly gleeful in their savage humor and unexpected pathos but I think I should have spread my reading over a longer period, by the end I was a bit tired of it all. In his time Bunch was marginalised within the sci-fi world, it's easy to see why, these stories are just too aggressively weird. Unsurprising that these satires on masculinity were published almost exclusively in magazines helmed by female editors (very few for very short periods). Still, I'd recommend this for genre fans and maybe one or two of the stories for others wanting something to cleanse their reading pallette.

After that high concept surrealism I switched to some mainstream character driven mimesis: Taffy Brodesser-Anker's buzzy _Fleischman is in trouble_; I really enjoyed it, especially the second half. The first part of this tale of marriage disintegration is told purely from mr Fleischman's point of view with only a few hints that (spoiler alert I guess?) he might not have the most reliable point of view. The narrative voice is somewhat confusing in this context, belonging to a friend of Toby Fleischman who has an almost supernatural degree of access to his feelings and thoughts at all times, as the novel progresses this becomes an increasingly baroque contrivance that strained my suspension of disbelief. But yeah, in the second half things properly kick off and Anker produces a really compelling picture of how social pressures, personal desires and individual self image create dissonance and how that can mess up people and their relationships and the people around them. If I have a complaint it's that the broader social/ cultural pressures that the Fleischmans suffer under are only really glancingly questioned or examined, it felt a bit like my experience of watching Breaking Bad where I always felt that the worst crime was the healthcare system that screws everyone up but which is just the water that the plot swims in rather than anything to be commented on or critiqued.

Right. Nearly up to date.

Finally I read a couple of tightly written plot engines. Robert Harris's second world war Bletchley code-breaking spy-catching rollercoaster _Enigma_ followed by Ruth Ware's modern _Turn of the Screw_ remix _Turn of the Key_. I enjoyed both though _Emigma_ is probably more my kind of thing. What reading these two back to back over the course of a week brought home to me is the extent to which plot doesn't really do it for me in and of itself. Both novels are really highly tuned in terms of suspense and there's nothing to spare, not fat on them, I felt almost physically dragged through the books in order to get to the resolution and that's not really enough for me, I find it's a compelling though perhaps less than pleasant experience. I think maybe this is related to my indifference to spoilers -- if all you have for me is a twist ending then I'm not sure I'll bother thanks. I realise that this puts me at odds with most people at least judging by how people freak out on the internet if you tell them what happens in a TV show.

OK. That was long.