Oh, hello! Since we last spoke I've been on holiday to France and spent 2 weeks stuck in the house for quarantine. Both children have returned to school and as a result I have started looking, in ernest, for a paid job. I say a paid job because entertaining, educating, and feeding two children in a house for 6 months is definitely a job (nothing new here, we all know society undervalues work which is typically carried out by women). Not having to think of and prepare 3 meals a day for 4 people with vastly differing requirements is a major relief. On the other hand I think having two children around to engage with and get to know more whilst being stuck in one place has been a real blessing and, on balance, a balm for my sanity -- on the whole I feel I've had a much better deal than people stuck by themselves (the very tip of my privilege iceberg I know).

So I've read a couple of books. 

Neville Shute's _On the Beach_ is really great; cleanly, unfussily told in that timeless mid-late 20th century style, a time when engineers could still become great novelists. It follows a group of characters in and around Melbourne dealing with their impending demise as a poisonous nuclear cloud creeps south over many months, the result of some unknown conflagration in the northern hemisphere. How people might delude themselves into leading lives of meaning in such situation is perfectly observed and made for resonant reading during [gestures at the world in general]. Tears were shed.

For me it felt like I was fitting in a keystone in my Australian post apocalyptic fiction reading it's influence can be seen in everything from Mad Max to the children's literature of Victor Kelleher to Ridley Walker. So yes, recommended!

Also, I finished CLR James cricket memoir _Beyond a Boundary_. I'm not much of a one for cricket really and lots of the finer detail and analyses of the game were lost on me but the writing is fantastic and the subjects he weaves into his narrative wide-ranging and insightful -- obviously West Indian self governance/ independence movements, structural racism (this was 1963 before such critiques were wide spread so seeing James fashion these ideas from his personal experience is particularly moving), less obviously (and rather brilliantly) a mythology around Britain's transition from agrarian to industrial society. I'm really looking forward to reading his history of the Haitian revolution _Black Jacobins_ which I understand has similar turns from serious scholarship to fanciful myth making. Also recommended but perhaps not if you have *literally* zero interest in/ knowledge of cricket.

I'm 3/4 of the way through the final installment of Hilary Mantels Thomas Cromwell books, I'm finding this one more of a slog than the last two which I sailed through -- I considered giving up after about 2-300 pages, glad I didn't. Maybe more on this next time.

FINALLY. I read Adam Greenfield's hot-of-the-PDF-generating-software _At the end of the world, plant a tree_ . It starts out a little depressing because [gestures at the world in general] but goes on to sketch a model for social "resourcefulness". It's kind of a mashup between [Dark Mountain](https://dark-mountain.net) and [Transition Towns](https://transitionnetwork.org) but as always Greenfield bring his own ideas and particular sensibility -- a kind of doom-laden hope? -- to proceedings. Worth checking out and purchasing it supports the fab bookshop Libreria (you can get it [here](https://www.libreria-subscribe.com/shop)). Also, it prompted me to discover 'booklet' mode on my printer which is a minor game changer.
