I've been avoiding the web esp social media pretty effectively for most of lockdown but have slipped during the last week. This came to a head yesterday  when I was cooking a bbq and constantly refreshing twitter to find out what D Cummings was saying in his briefing -- it didn't provide enlightenment, entertainment or any useful information, I should have just got on with cooking the bbq and enjoying the fact that we have a garden -- the last 10/11/12(?) weeks have made me _very_ grateful for the garden. On the other hand though, my slide back on to the web has meant I've read some interesting stuff that I can record here and share. So...

I thought this article [Labour and Antisemitism: a Crisis Misunderstood](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1467-923X.12854) was very good. I'm not going to try to summarise it here because when I did it got LONG and it got contentious.

This blog post [Doordash and Pizza Arbitrage](https://themargins.substack.com/p/doordash-and-pizza-arbitrage) recounts a story about a US startup called Doordash. It's a great critique of the economics of VC funded startups and well worth a few minutes of your time

> You have insanely large pools of capital creating an incredibly inefficient money-losing business model. It's used to subsidize an untenable customer expectation. You leverage a broken workforce to minimize your genuine labor expenses. The companies unload their capital cannons on customer acquisition, while this week’s Uber-Grubhub news reminds us, the only viable endgame is a promise of monopoly concentration and increased prices. But is that even viable? 

Staying with the political, Dr Kate Orkin in _[The evidence behind putting money directly in the pockets of the poor](http://www.ox.ac.uk/news/science-blog/evidence-behind-putting-money-directly-pockets-poor#)_ puts forward the case that evidence supports the idea that the best way to fight all sorts of inequality based ills is simply to give the poorer people money or [give homeless people houses](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2014/09/22/home-free) or whatever.

I enjoyed this article from Harpers in 1942 in which Dorothy Thompson asks [Who goes Nazi?](https://harpers.org/archive/1941/08/who-goes-nazi/)

And last but not least [this interview with Wayne Marshal](http://wayneandwax.com/?p=9575) whose work I've followed for years and who's work I always find is worth reading. Here he's talking about his work looking at Tik Tok/ Fortnight/ Atlanta hiphop dances in the context of other dance crazes through the 20th/21st century where he attempts

> to place our present social media “dance craze” into historical perspective, comparing it to previous historical moments when vast numbers of Americans found themselves caught up in a kind of collective choreography. There are strong parallels between the spread of moves like the Milly Rock (or the Swipe, in Fortnite’s rebranding) to the rise of such dances as the Twist in the 1960s via shows like American Bandstand, or the ragtime-era animal dances that scandalized society balls in the 1910s (until tamed into the likes of the Foxtrot). But while these previous crazes have often been represented as transgressing established codes around race, gender, and class, I argue that the TikTok / Fortnite-era craze seems less easily celebrated: not only is there intense corporate enclosure and exploitation, including classic questions of racial injustice, the dances themselves, despite being drawn from vibrant social dance scenes, seem often to be put to anti-social uses on the internet and even IRL. 

Here's the PDF of the original article which he talks about in the interview: [Social Dance in the Age of (Anti-)Social MediaFortnite, Online Video, and the Jook at a Virtual Crossroads](http://wayneandwax.com/academic/JPMS3104_01_Marshall-Fortnite-proofs.pdf)