Prolonged absence down to tiredness, other projects and having elderly parents. Here are some books I've been reading:

## The Heat of the Day by Elizabeth Bowen

Second World War noir -- the setting, London post blitz, is ultra specifically recreated. The language is incredible, poetic and fluid but also super idiomatic, especially the dialogue which reads like how my grandmother spoke; stilted and full of now unfamiliar elisions. 

The novel took me a while to get through, I found I'd often have to re-read a page to grasp what was going on. The unfamiliarity was compounded by the fact that the war and the nature of the plot (espionage, blackmail) circumscribes certain topics for the characters and those need to be addressed glancingly, between the lines. 

Anyway, the very specific evocation of the time and place is really impressive, the psychic landscape of London in war time feels fully realised. This whole pandemic thing has shown how quickly we can adapt to different normalities, how quickly new modes of being -- socially speaking -- can become norms. It'll be interesting to see in years to come which writers can successfully reach back, recognise and capture that alien feeling of the early weeks of the pandemic as well as Bowen captured the febrile war time atmosphere.

## Lord of the Rings, The Fellowship of the Ring

I read this to K. We both enjoyed it, it was interesting experiencing it through her eyes and I expect she will have picked up some of my own feelings about the book -- I like the pastoral stuff more than most I suspect, always appreciate a good helping of food and farming in my fantasy books. We both quickly agreed that reading the songs is not required, K is very astute re the lack of female characters "what! even the moon is male?" and the book's racial essentialism is a good place to start necessary conversations.

It really is a singular book though. It looms large in our culture (largely down to the early 00s films) but revisiting it I was struck by its oddness in terms of structure, language and concerns -- it's easier to see how Gene Wolfe and other lit-fantasy outliers relate to Tolkien than the more obvious mainstream followers. But also, in amongst all the lineage of elves tiresomeness (seriously, Rivendell and Lothlorien are the worst bits) Tolkien really knows how do do cool set pieces. The mad dash to Rivendell, Gandalf vs the Balrog in Moria etc. K was literally (_literally_) jumping up and down when Gandalf returned the other night (we've started book 2).

## Black American Psycho

This is an Amazon print on demand book by Ernest Baker. I'm normally quite good at writing down where I got a recommendation when I add something to my to-read pile but my notes reveal nothing here and so I went in cold. Research after the fact reveals that Baker is/was? a music journalist during the early-mid 2010s the kind of person whose writing I would have been aware of 10 years earlier, before I had kids and recused myself from keeping up with pop music etc. (it's telling that [Baker is really into Drake](https://www.complex.com/style/drake-coachella-profile), the appeal of Drake is pretty much totally lost on me and I feel like this is a kind of generational schism between me and "young" people). Also, as his one line author biography states "Ernest Baker is black". 

This book appears to be a fictionalised account of Ernest Baker's life from 2012-2016 -- it's not subtle about this: _Drake_ becomes _Rake_, _Pitchfork_ becomes _Tractor_ etc. Key features of author stand-in Authur Simon's modus operandi include serially cheating on his girlfriend being a massive coke head and being massive knob (mainly because of the cocaine and emotional strain of an abusive relationship). The book revolves around Simon's partner's allegations of assault. In the book it's made clear that whilst Simon is flawed in many ways he's not a violent person and that the allegation is unfounded -- the result though is the complete razing of his career and a year in limbo as the American court system grinds slowly towards a trial ([a real thing that happened to the author](https://jezebel.com/ernest-baker-makes-a-number-of-new-accusations-after-as-1783867583)). The context here is of course the history of racists and racist institutions using white women's honour as an excuse to persecute and punish black men, this is in the news at the moment you may have noticed. 

Anyway, I'm conflicted, the apparently cursory nature of the fictionalisation complicates things. As someone coming new to this whole thing across a big temporal, spatial and cultural distance -- I'm aware that I'm very much getting one point of view. In spite of Arthur Simon's (and maybe Baker's?) behaviour, my sympathy as a reader lies squarely with him. On the other hand I'm not going to relinquish the position that it's important to believe the testimony of victims of domestic violence -- coming forward in such situations can be daunting and risky and requires real bravery when even the best outcomes from such testimony can incur more personal damage for the victim. Racism and the patriarchy, two shit flavours that taste shit together!

---

Otherwise, summer is starting & lockdown is unlocking which is making me feel anxious again. The communications and 'rules' from the government are so vague and poorly structured that I've got to assume it's a deliberate decision, allowing them enough wiggle room to say whatever happens either was or wasn't their fault depending on political expediency. Lying now seems to be their default mode of communication. For me this was most recently underlined by the whole tracing app debacle "we're pursuing a hybrid model" or whatever nonsense Matt Hancock babbled the other day at the press conference, claiming to have a partnership with Google and Apple ([without telling them](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jun/19/apple-and-google-not-told-of-uk-plans-to-use-their-tech-with-nhs-app)). For such consistent liars they seem very bad at it.

Briefly, on the subject of the tracing app. 1. how anyone thought that this could be achieved without buy-in at the OS level is beyond me. 2. seems that no-one right now has an actual contact tracing app that works -- in terms of delivering measurable reduction in transmission -- and, but, I hope to be proved wrong, to me the whole thing has the whiff of wishful thinking, hoping to avoid hard, expensive work with a technological silver bullet.

OK. Hope to see you soon.