We played the business empire building/ negotiation game [Chinatown](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/47/chinatown) at boardgame night. It was Just me E and new non-gamer friend. Inspite of it's depth Chinatown is easy to teach and pickup. The box says 14+ but we've played it with our 8 and 10yr olds with no problem. There are a couple of reasons why I think it works for younger and/ or less experienced gamers than the depth it offers (and the box) might suggest. 

First: The decision making portion of the game is largely confined to only 2 of the 6 actions listed on the player aid (advanced players will surely disagree). The rest are more or less purely mechanical, so the players needn't really internalise these -- I mean it helps to know how the scoring works but playing a simple game it's not that vital.

Second (and this one is a big consideration for me when choosing a game to play with kids): because there's no hidden information (except maybe for player scores which are obfuscated) it's easy to give less experienced players tips or give them a leg up by helping them to see or achieve favourable trades available during the games main negotiation phase.

On the other hand of the balance sheet, the mental arithmetic you have to do at the end of each turn gets increasingly onerous and is a bit of a chore by round 6 (esp when alcohol is involved) -- it's just adding integers, but you have to do that whilst also working out where on the board you score and then looking up the value of your businesses on the tiny player aid. It feels a bit like dividing a restaurant bill up at the end of the evening, but you have to do it every 10-minutes throughout the evening. Next time I play I'm going to provide sheets of paper and pencils to ease the burden.

---

I finaly got round to reading Chris Ware's Rusty Brown (possible spoilers follow). Partly I left it a while because I'd read about 2/5ths of it in its serial form and partly becasue the book was so heavy I couldn't easily take it on public transport. It's interesting to see how Ware has grown both as an visual artist and a story teller over the book's 18 year gestation, the final part which deals with a primary school teacher and her search for a child which she was forced to put up for adoption as a young teenager is told almost worldessly and yet the feeling I got whilst moving through the pages is very much of reading.

As a whole the book deals with typical Ware themes: the mechanisms of memory and it's falibility, nostalgia, loneliness, utterly shitty people, the midwest, all rendered in the distinctive iconic style which inspite of it's block colours and uniform outlines still somehow reads as realism.

I can't deny I was more than a little frustrated to reach the end and find that there's another volume to follow at some unspecified moment in the future and any resolution is just going to have to wait. That said, for me, Chris Ware is absolutely without peer in terms of his visual story telling, his craft and his ability to conjure character, place and atmosphere from such simple building blocks. It really is a piece of luck for me as a fan of visual storytelling that I get to see this guy create and develop his art during my lifetime.
