I was ill at the end of last week, just run down basically. I did get a chance to spend time kicking a bunch of people from following me on twitter (basically anyone who I don't follow now doesn't follow me). This is kind of a halfway position to deleting my account. It was a pain to do, I basically had to block and then unblock everyone one at a time. I could have just blocked them and it would have been quicker, but that seemed rude, I have nothing against these people but they didn't pass the pub test which was the standard I chose to apply i.e. If I saw this person in a pub would I want them to come and sit with me? Not saying that this list is exhaustive RE people I'd want to have a drink with or that all the people I excluded were people who I wouldn't want to drink with just a rule of thumb.

The other thing I did whilst bed-ridden (that's a bit melodramatic as a description but ther you go) was read a couple of books.

1: _Gideon the Ninth_ a trashy (in a good way) space-fantasy which I really enjoyed. The way the charaters speak/think initially iritated me -- it's absurdly contemporary in a very specific nerd-trying-to-sound-cool-way (a sort of social media sassiness that is to me kind of unbearable "Buckle up losers! Here's a thread on why the Jaconbins had the sickest haircuts! 1/312" type thing) I prefer my sword-fighting space goths to be more po-faced. But TBH after the first 50 pages I barely noticed, the  pop _40k_ setting is well realised, the plot rockets along and the whole thing is really well structured esp. for a first novel. Definitely getting the next one when it comes out (it's a trilogy natch). Also, love the cover art.

2: _Bad Blood_ aka the book about Theranos. Finally picked this off the shelf and rushed through it, more to get it over with than because I particularly enjoyed it. It's basic American journalist writing but the content is hair-raising. Looking forward to the trial in July.

