---
type: ''
date: 2021-01-09 00:00:00 +0000
title: Memories of early 2020 and some reflections on social media
data-url: ''

---
Of course I don’t have enough distance to make any judgements about the last year and its impact on just about everything. No one does. We’ll need to wait for the tenth anniversary think pieces/ tweets/ lip synced tiktok videos to find out what it all ‘means’.

I remember pretty clearly when I first started worrying about the pandemic, or rather the potential for a pandemic (for a while I’ve been primed to worry about pandemics so I was on it pretty early). It was the day I got my new bike stolen after eating at [house of momo](https://houseofmomo.co.uk/) with my friend Kate. Instagram dates this as the 29th of jan 2020. I remember this because that was the day I decided public transport was no longer a good idea and I wouldn’t be taking it again (a plan temporarily derailed by the aforementioned bike theft).

By March 11th (dated by an Instagram photo I took on the way to meet my friend Nick to eat with him at [laksa mania](http://www.laksamania.co.uk/)) I was pretty much decided on not going outside. But I did go out and spent much of the evening worrying about proximity to other people and hand washing and so on. I was surprised to see the pubs heaving as usual. A feeling which would be repeated through the year (what people are actually going to take them up on this “eat out to help out scheme”?).

After lockdown time got weird.

I quit Twitter, finally, and excused myself from most WhatsApp groups. Even if Twitter and Facebook continue for another 10 or 20 years they feel like they’re dying to me. The internet advertising model is totally broken for everyone but the largest actors (Google, Facebook and perhaps a sprinkle of others) and when that bubble bursts... But aside from that, the fact that the sites work by promoting outage-cycles as traffic drivers above anything else. The fact that the “conversation”, is dominated by a few individuals and is concerned primarily with the minutiae  of the platform itself. No conversation has a half life longer than a couple of hours before the same points need to be rehearsed once more, these platforms at this scale suffer form an acute lack of memory. All these things look familiar to anyone who’s watched online communities fail over the last 20 years, it’s just never happened on this scale before. It’s a lot easier to get a view of Twitter on the whole when you’re not logged in and from this vantage point it’s all yelling extremists. Trump is not an outlier he’s an exemplar of The behaviour these platforms encourage and reward.

This year I’m excising Google.