---
type: ''
date: 2022-02-06 00:00:00 +0000
title: Week Notes 1
data-url: ''

---
I have decided to note my weeks. I always enjoy reading [Alice’s Weak Notes](https://alicebartlett.co.uk/blog/weaknotes  )  and would like to write more stuff on this here website again. I will write them through the week and then publish on sunday.

New bikes arrived for K and J. Mountain bikes. Proper adult size mountain bikes. At the moment they’re in our living room. I’m not very hopeful that they’ll fit in the bike locker along with mine and E’s proper adult sized bikes.

J was off school ill for a day so I bunked off work early (3ish) after my last meeting to keep him company, cook food etc. it’s amazing how much time there is when you’re not stuck in front of a computer. I also managed a good bit of work early on. I feel like my circadian rhythm naturally skews early, I’ve always vaguely felt that but as I get older I seem to need to follow it more closely. (the bikes did all fit in the locker)

Played a first proper game of Warcry, the Warhammer skirmish game I got last year. Probably the first time I’ve ever played a GW game where 100% of the miniatures were painted. The game itself was pretty fast and fun, not particularly thinky and very much tuned for narrative play. I can imagine 14yr old me playing game after game of this into the small hours whilst listening to metal music I thought was ok but not ideally what i’d be listening to.

Someone from a civil service GIS team reached out via email about using my London squared code which gave me a warm glow in the middle of a crap day at my actual job. Did make me feel like i needed to fix a few bits of the docs and update some dependencies on it though. probably about an hours work, might try and do it this weekend. (note from future me: not going to happen)

Started [painting a new war band](https://www.instagram.com/p/CZiHBBqIWX4/?utm_medium=copy_link) it still kind of blows my mind that people follow my miniature painting efforts on Instagram (people with much more skill at painting than me) and regularly click the like button. i’m easily pleased.

[This is a good comment on MetaFilter](https://www.metafilter.com/194250/30-games-a-day#8204646) which really chimes with a lot of things i’ve been thinking about lately, to quote the last bit…

> “… we have driven out the myriad ways that everyday people of middling talent used to participate in creating art for their local communities, and I think there is a real psychological and community loss involved in that, both because all humans like to create art (and not that many of us have the chance anymore) and because our communities are enriched when they are beautified by local art that is deeply connected to the community and the people who live in it.
>
> It makes me wonder if the underlying complaint is not actually, "there's too many games." But rather, "We have created a society where you either earn money from nationwide appeal of your art, or you don't get to create any that anybody ever sees or appreciates." That's kind of fucked up, because most of us would like to create our little low-key amateur art AND have our community appreciate it. Not that many of us either want to toil in complete obscurity … or devote our lives to becoming a world-class artist and hoping we win the attention lottery. Most of us would get a lot of creative fulfillment from being the third guy to bang out some waltzes on the piano at a community dance!” 

… it feels like that is relevant to what i said about miniature painting and Instagram up above (I have some thoughts about Instagram). As the person amongst my gaming friends who enjoys painting little plastic figures (and is not bad at it) I feel like I can contribute to that group in a small bit meaningful way. At the level of banging out a waltz at a community dance.

Met ex ATF colleagues for food (Master Wei) and drinks (The pub next to Master Wei) on Friday. Suffered through a hangover for the rest of the weekend.

Started watching The Gilmore Girls with K. (I’ve seen it before, she hasn’t) In my tired & hungover state it felt pretty emotional in an ultra low stakes way.