Quite a full on end to the year with a bunch of freelance work coming through, the lead time for freelance work being what it is it all arrived at once making me neglect my xmas shopping and social life in the last part of 2022. Need to get better at planning if I'm to continue dow this route.

Family commitments meant I wasn't able to play as many board games as I managed over Autumn, having for a few months regularly been going to London On Board meetups. Played [_Ahoy_](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/359402/ahoy) just before xmas at a quiet and chilly 5 Points Brewery in Hackney, I really enjoyed it and would consider getting hold of a copy as I think J would enjoy it. And I finally got to play breakout hit (_Wingspan_)[https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/266192/wingspan] in an over-lit Goethe Institute classroom, though TBH I don't get the appeal (of the game, I'm all for bright lighting). For that kind of engine building I prefer _Race for The Galaxy_ even it's super generic theme seems less pasted on than Wingspan's.

Still reading _Strange and Norell_ to K. I've been reading some 50s sci-fi to J.

Thinking of re-doing my [books](/books) site in Svelte, I'd like to add my notes there rather than burying them in this ailing weblog but the current setup wouldn't really support that, or rather the current setup is simple enough that a complete re-write is not un-feasible. I have things to say about Amitav Ghosh's _Great Derangement_. Will I get the site re-write done before I forget them? (short version he acknowledges that sci-fi is treated as a ghetto to which fiction about climate change is often relegated but fails to recognize that it's a ghetto that, on the whole, sells a while lot more that the literary fiction "mainstream". In short, it's literary fiction which is the dead end and [as JG Ballard clocked half a century ago](https://jgballard.ca/non_fiction/jgb_fictions.html) it's genre fiction which addresses the real world)

__TV:__ Season 2 of _For all Mankind_ really dropped the ball, focussing on boring conversations rather than action and event, we didn't make it to the end.

Season 2 of _White Lotus_ was alright though TBH didn't have the humor of the the first one, a lot of the characters seemed pretty flat but it was still entertaining though difficult to watch at times.

_The Peripheral_; I guzzled the whole series during a terrible hangover. I liked it. Maybe I should check out some Recent William Gibson books, I dropped off after failing to finish _Pattern Recognition_. 

_His Dark Materials_, good family viewing solidly made and acted, not sure I can muster much more enthusiasm than that though.

Films: _Glass Onion_ (Knives out 2). Saw this at the cinema, J got very agitated during the pivotal scene with everyone running around and shouting in the dark, but he came out a fan. (He's pretty discriminating about films he'll sit through, K will watch most things). We watched it again when it came out on Netflix and it was equally as enjoyable reinforcing my view that spoilers are only a problem if all you've got is the twist.

I deleted _Marvel Snap_ off my phone after a nearly reaching diamond rank (like 5 cubes off) at the expense of doing literally anything else with my spare time. It's a great game but the design around the central contest is pernicious.